hey guys welcome back to the channel so
what do you do if it turns out that an
urban legend is real and an evil spirit
tries to kill you
that's what happens in the curse of la
jorona there the garcia family must
uncover the mystery of what's happening
to their kids when they get stalked by a
woman in a white dress
in this video we'll look at how you can
beat the curse and survive until the end
the movie starts in 1673 mexico with a
mother and her husband together with
their two kids playing in a field
then one of the boys closes his eyes but
when he opens them back
up the others are gone he decides to go
towards a river where he sees his mother
drowning his brother
after trying to run away he's chased by
his mom who kills him
this was la rona she has a different
first name but i can't pronounce that
now as it's described in the story she
kills her children in a blind fit of
rage when she catches her husband with
another girl
this makes the first scene a little bit
weird because the husband is right there
and all of them are happy so it kind of
looks like while they were in the middle
of their game
he just walked off with some random girl
but that's not what happens here
it's only explained much later but there
are days in between these various cuts
however as a rule of thumb if you're
cheating on your partner
make sure to keep that hidden so that
the other person can't find out
seriously that was the husband's problem
in the story he's seen by his wife out
in public with another girl and then she
goes crazy
this emotional reaction could have been
avoided if they first gotten split up
or if he told her how he felt and not
just go off with someone else
or you know he could just not cheat we
cut to los angeles in 1973 where a
single mother named anna garcia
gets her two kids chris and samantha
ready for school
it's also shown that anna works for
child protective services
shortly after arriving at work she goes
to investigate a case
where a mother is allegedly hurting her
kids she's joined by a police officer
and goes to her apartment
when they step inside all the windows
are boarded up like in some meth den and
all the lights are off
eventually anna sees that the children
are locked in a closet
when she tries helping him the mother
runs up behind her ready to beat her to
death with a hammer
well that's a little extreme luckily the
police officer appears and saves her
anna then opens the door and sees two
boys
since the mother seems kind of crazy the
brothers are brought to a temporary home
they are anna sees that they both have
burn marks on their wrists
she asked how they got them but they
only say that she did it
what they mean by that is that lyorona
burned them as this is how she marks her
next victims
now something that could really help
here is if the kids could be a little
bit more specific
when they say she did it they're being
so vague that anna thinks that it's
their mother that's hurting them but the
two should just be honest here and say
that they were being followed by someone
who was attacking them
and their mother was trying her best to
protect them which is
true that would be a lot more helpful
than merely saying
she did it and leaving the meaning of
that message completely up to
interpretation
that night while the boys are sleeping
in the building a guard comes and checks
on them
he exits shortly after but only seconds
later we see that one of the boys went
outside into the hallway
the younger brother follows him and they
walk around for a bit
when suddenly the older one stops in the
middle of the hallway by a puddle
then layurona slowly appears from behind
a corner
a few seconds later she kills both of
them now one small tip is to avoid any
wet locations
since she does tend to be a bit more
active around the water we'll see more
of this throughout the movie
also when the boys first see the creepy
woman appear down the hall
they can call for help we see that there
was at least one security guard checking
on the kids only seconds before
so he's probably not that far away and
usually when there are outsiders
interrupting the ghost
and has a lower probability of attacking
a few hours later anna gets a call
telling her to go to the la river
there they find the two dead brothers we
see that she brought her children and
tells him to stay in the car
anna goes to check out the crime scene
and seize the boys now i don't know why
their children are here
when they were attacked inside that
building either while the kids were
alive lyorona dragged them out of the
house and across the street and into the
river with no one noticing the kids
screaming
or she killed them and then threw him
into a river for fun
leave your guests in the comments their
mother arrives a short while later and
starts screaming that lyorona did it
then we see that anna's son chris goes
out of the car
trying to look at the police work even
though his mother just told him to stay
put
he watches from like 60 feet away but a
few seconds later notices a woman crying
by a bush
chris tries talking to her but it turns
out that it's la jorona
and she jumps out at him and burns his
arm by the way here the kid screams
really loud
and lyrona shout something at him yet
none of the police nor the mother hear
any of this or go to see what's going on
even though they're right there
once chris flees back in the car lyorona
tries rolling down the windows one at a
time
but chris keeps putting them back up and
i gotta ask what the hell kind of a
ghost is this
rolls down a window and how is the evil
spirit weaker than this nine year old
she can't even twist that knob harder
than chris she's a ghost how does she
even kill anyone when she's about as
strong as a soaking wet newspaper but
here there might be a way for the
upcoming conflict to be avoided now i
believe that chris starts getting
followed by lyorona
because they were near the river by the
crime scene of the two previous victims
now later on the mother of the dead
brothers reveals that she made a trade
with la yorona
she should get her boys back and
therefore can pursue chris and samantha
but it's unclear if that's the real
reason why lyorona goes after the garcia
family
because she never gives the other two
kids back and the other mom is painted
as kind of insane and untrustworthy
so i believe that it has more to do with
them being near the crime scene where
she was recently active and that it's
close to the water
which is where she often appears if
that's the case there was a pretty easy
solution
the mother could have simply not taken
her kids there and i don't know why she
brings them along anyway
a crime scene is not a place to bring
your children and both of them look
really sleepy as it's probably past
midnight they're not young enough where
you can't leave them alone for a few
hours
and not old enough that they'll start a
house party the minute she's not there
so anna could have left them sleeping at
home which might stop chris from ever
getting marked
after the ghost is done playing around
with the windows anna returns
and for some reason neither chris nor
samantha revealed what just happened
this is a big problem as it can greatly
speed up the process
of the mother realizing what's going on
with her kids and chris doesn't have to
tell the whole truth
he doesn't have to say that he went out
of the car to look at the crime scene
only has to say is that there was some
crazy old hag messing with the car
after this incident they all go home and
start to sleep but the next morning
things don't really get a lot better
anna meets a local pastor who tells her
about laerona's backstory
that she was happily married to a
wealthy man with whom she had two
children
one day she caught him with another girl
and a blind anger killed the kids to
take from him what he valued most
because of this she can't go to heaven
and is stuck in purgatory where she
kills
young children in an attempt to replace
her own
meanwhile samantha's at home playing in
the backyard
when she opens her umbrella she sees the
ghost through it then the umbrella
starts flying towards the pool where the
woman stood
and of course she follows it when she
picks it up she too gets burned by her
this was a pretty bad decision
especially for a kid
if it were a grown-up it would make a
little bit more sense because you're
less likely to be scared off by some
ghoul
but when you're a child and you think
that santa claus or spectres and goblins
are real
you'd expect her to get the hell out of
there the mother then comes home and
talks to samantha she asked her how she
got the burn marks on her wrist
and she says that she fell unfortunately
anna just accepts this but she should
press back a little bit harder on what
really happened
because first of all it's a pretty
serious injury and she can at least
gather a band-aid
and also it's very clearly a burn mark
not a scratch from a small fall
it looks like somebody put out a cigar
on her arm so when it's dark out and the
kids are asleep
anna begins hearing noises downstairs
she walks around the house and gets led
to the entrance
where chris is constantly opening the
door after anna takes him away from it
and asks him what's going on the door
flies open
the mother just brushes this off and
says that the kid is probably just
having a nightmare
what that has to do with a door opening
i don't know
but there are some pretty major red
flags here first of all the door was
fully closed so it shouldn't just open
up
also they had that chain which locks it
so this isn't just some wind
but she brings him back to the bed and
takes a look in a room
where all the windows are now open and
her paper files are thrown around
everywhere then she looks across the
hall into her daughter's bedroom
and sees the woman in the white dress
she tries going towards it but her door
closes
anna quickly grabs a baseball bat and
goes back to her door
where she now sees the ghost she yells
at it to get out of her house and swings
her baseball bat but then the kids go
inside and ask her what she's making all
this noise for
the mother to my surprise just says
nothing although simply asking if
they've also seen this creepy white
woman can allow them to quickly get to
the bottom of this but everyone just
ignores this
very creepy and supernatural creature
that's standing right in front of them
and the ghost was after the kids so it
would make sense for her to ask if they
know about her
afterwards the children go into ana's
bed where they both sleep
and the mom stays up until the next
morning they were pretty lucky that
nothing happened but just to be safe she
can call the cops
she even knows some of them personally
so she can ask them to come over
the next morning she doesn't tell
anybody and goes to work like
nothing even happened that day anna
talks to the mother from the beginning
there it's revealed that when lyorona
took her kids she tried to make a trade
with the ghost so that she can get her
boys back
and in return lyrona can take anna's two
children
again i don't know how true that is
because she never gets them back
indicating that la jorona didn't take
her up on that offer and why would the
ghost trade with her what's it matter to
the evil spirit whose kids she has
so i think it has more to do with the
fact that chris was at the crime scene
where she was last
active then we see that while anna is
talking to this woman
chris and sam are in the house yes she
left them alone in the house where she
saw a ghost
it would be a lot smarter if anna told
them to go to the neighbor's kids or a
friend
now la yorona will follow them around
sure but we see that she tends to be
much less active when there are other
people nearby
anyway while he's in the house chris
goes into sam's room and goes towards a
curtain
there la yorona jumps out at him so his
reaction upon seeing her is that he runs
away
but then stops very conveniently by the
stairs
then the exact same scare happens again
and he falls down the steps
are you kidding me what kid after they
see a ghost would run out of the room
and then just stand in the hallway
waiting for it to attack
chris go to your sister get out of the
house do something
when he tumbles towards the floor the
mother arrives and sees that chris got
badly hurt
and she's all surprised what a ghost
attacked you
that is so much unlike what happened
just last night
how can she leave her kids there oh god
then we see them having dinner again and
they're all sitting around like
yeah well that was a pretty uneventful
day
clearly there is nothing to talk about
or to discuss
then child protective services arrives
to take a look at anna's kids
because they found out about their
injuries the woman asked them how they
both got the burn marks but they're all
quiet and tell them nothing
so they leave again afterwards the
mother asks chris what really happened
and then he finally tells her what he
saw
then after la jorona attacks one more
time they flee the house and ask the
local pastor what they should do he
tells them that he can't help them since
it would take too long to get approval
from the church
so instead he recommends that anna asks
a local ghostbuster gone rogue and
oh my god it's tuko salamanc i mean
raphael olvera of course he is by far
the coolest character by the way
they all go home together and set up a
bunch of candles which is supposed to
keep the ghost away
so it's starting to look like the
apartment anna went into towards the
beginning
as it gets late raphael can sense that
the evil spirit is in the hell
searching for them then all the candles
get blown out i don't really know what
the candles were supposed to do if they
instantly go out
they probably could have avoided a bunch
of effort by setting up half as many
since it doesn't matter since they all
get blown out anyways then lairono shows
up and begins attacking the mother
both the kids quickly run away and hide
under a table
but shortly after she appears by the
kids and tries dragging chris out of the
house
just as she's by the door raphael grabs
her
and throws some magic black liquid in
her face this burns her skin and she
leaves the house
then raphael puts the seeds of a fire
tree at the door
and lyorona can no longer enter he
explains that as long as this line of
special seeds remains unbroken
the ghost cannot come back in but if the
fireseeds trap her couldn't they just
put them on all the doors in their home
while layurona was still in the house
and then the family leaves so that the
ghost would be trapped inside
or just put them in the door of a hotel
room then they go in leaving la yorona
stuck at the door
then you can call room service and let
them deal with her but after this stunt
lyorona tries coming in through the back
door
since there are no fire seats there so
they race to the other door trying to
secure it as well
yeah isn't this all preparation they
could have done before
why is raphael waiting until now to
spread the fire seeds he could have done
it on all the other doors
then when he puts it on the front
entrance he would successfully keep her
out for good
instead they squander all their time
playing with eggs and lighting candles
that don't even last two seconds
anyway they race to the back door to
secure it but samantha stays in the
front
then she sees that on the porch just
outside is one of her stuffed animals
since all the others are on the opposite
side of the building and she's all alone
she figures that she'll just quickly
grab it and remember what raphael said
as long as this line of fire seeds
remains they're safe
but the doll is just outside sam's reach
so she grabs it and pulls it inside
then she breaks the line of seeds when
dragging in this stupid doll
and then lyorona gets her all she had to
do
was not break the line of seeds
man if these were my kids
chris tells them that the ghost will try
to drown sam in their pool so they all
run to the backyard there they see are
in the water and the mother jumps in
after her
but lyorona starts attacking anna as she
won't let go of sam
then raphael blesses the pool and turns
all of it into holy water
thereby forcing out the evil spirit
afterwards they all go back inside
raphael suggests that they lock the kids
in a closet so that they won't walk
towards lyrona because she apparently
still has some grasp over them
and can call them which will make them
go to her the two adults then stay in
the kitchen downstairs while the kids
are in the closet in the bedroom
but only a few minutes later a
mysterious woman walks into their room
and upstairs
anna then hears sam screaming and goes
to the front door
and it turns out to be the crazy woman
who wants to give la
rona anna's children in exchange for her
own lady
it's not going to work their kids are
dead get it
poof gone no longer in existence and how
did she even get inside she just walked
into the front door
so i guess they forgot to lock it really
if that's the case why didn't light your
owner just kick the door open
and hope that a draft carries the seeds
away like it did with a doll
but they could have prevented this if
they stayed upstairs with chris and sam
instead of hanging out in the kitchen
which is on a different floor and far
away
then the woman couldn't have grabbed
them then it's revealed that this crazy
idiot has a pistol with her
she shoots raphael in the shoulder and
yells at laya rona to take these kids
instead of her own
after which she kicks the seeds away
lyrona is then magically able to remove
all of the seeds
why didn't she just do that before ah
forget it lyrona walks inside
throws the mother in the basement and
locks her in there in order to get away
from her
sam and chris run into the attic the
ghost is then able to go up there as
well and slowly walks towards them
also what they could have done here is
take buckets of holy water from the pool
and use that to attack her whenever she
comes close but just before
she takes chris he flashes her necklace
oh yeah back in the pool they were able
to steal that from her
and now they're showing it off this
removes the creepy demon face and she
looks normal again
she begins caressing their hair but
samantha is pretty creeped out by it
so she starts moving backwards on a
blanket then
i couldn't believe this so anna is still
locked in the basement right
but then the crazy woman has a change of
heart and breaks the door to let her out
all of a sudden she's like i'll help
them now but still anna makes her way
upstairs
meanwhile sam moves so far back on the
blanket that it falls off the item it
was on
it turns out that it's a mirror and when
it's revealed
lyrona takes a look at it and turns into
a demon again
i don't know why i don't care as it
starts attacking the kids again
anna and raphael go upstairs to fight
him it's able to knock over raphael
and then runs at anna and the kids just
as it's really close
raphael takes over a special crucifix to
her
and anna grabs it and stabs her in the
chest this of all things turns her into
a pile of ink and kills it
finally they have gotten rid of the
demon and are able to move on
so that's how you can beat la yorona
this movie almost
destroyed me but check it out if you
haven't is actually pretty fun
as always i hope you liked it and that i
get to see you guys
in the next video bye guys
you